Let’s take a look at another common example, URLs.
Here is a regular expression for URLs I came up with earlier.
It isn’t perfect, perhaps by the end of this video
you’ll have figured out some things that are missing,
but it’s a good starting example so let’s take a look.
Before we do though we need to make
one more clarification.
Apart from some cases such as backslash d,
the backslash is used as an escape character
and so the following symbol is matched ‘as-is.’
We found before that the period matches any single character,
but backslash period matches the period itself.
This is the same for backslash forwardslash,
as forwardslash normally matches the division symbol.
So, first we have the Hypertext Transfer Protocol, HTTP,
with zero or one of an S, followed by colon, forwardslash forwardslash.
This is the part of the URL you see before the actual web address.
This entire sequence can be left out,
so it is enclosed in parentheses
and followed by a question mark.
The next sequence, the main web address,
is a combination of characters and symbols.
We have a choice between a letter or a digit
or a period or a hyphen or a forwardslash,
NOTE the hyphen was accidentally left out in the drawing
but we almost certainly need more than one,
so it is wrapped in parentheses and given a plus symbol.
After this there is a period, then the suffix.
.com is the most common example in business,
NOTE 'in business' was accidentally left out in the audio
but there are many many regional alternatives;
such as .co.nz for New Zealand and .co.uk for the United Kingdom.
In this series of videos we took a look at
the basic meaning of Regular Expressions,
what they’re used for, as well as some of
the many different symbols used in practical systems,
though they all can be expressed in terms of just four.
For more information and examples,
check out the Computer Science Field Guide.
Regular Expressions is in the chapter on Formal Languages.
Thanks for watching!